README.md, before:

# rumor-cli

rumor-cli is a command-line tool designed to eliminate boilerplate and repetitive code when generating the essential files for a microservices project. It streamlines the process by automatically creating GRPC proto files, API components (controller, service, and DTO), and Go code for the API gateway, based on a single JSON configuration file provided by the user.

### Features
* GRPC Proto Files Generation: Automatically generate GRPC proto files to define service interfaces and message types.
* API Generation: Create API components, including controllers, services, and DTOs, to handle HTTP requests and responses.
* API Gateway Code Generation in Go: Generate Go code for the API gateway to manage and route incoming API requests.

### Usage
To use rumor-cli, define a JSON configuration file that specifies the details of the microservice and the desired components. Here is an example JSON configuration file with detailed explanations for each parameter and section:

### Example Json

```json 
{
    "name": "titok",
    "description": "tiktokurls",
    "microservice": "auth",
    "functions": [
        {
            "name": "get_tiktok_auth_url2",
            "enpoint": "/get_tiktok_auth_url2",
            "method": "GET",
            "needs_middleware": false,
            "fieldsRequest": [
                {
                    "name": "user_id",
                    "type": "string", // int32, float,double,string
                    "nullable": true,
                    "source": "query",
                    "isUUID": true
                }
            ],
            "fieldsResponse": [
                {
                    "name": "data",
                    "type": "string",
                    "nullable": false,
                    "source": "response"
                }
            ]
        },
        {
            "name": "tiktok_auth_callback2",
            "enpoint": "/tiktok_auth_callback2",
            "method": "GET",
            "needs_middleware": true,
            "fieldsRequest": [
                {
                    "name": "code",
                    "type": "string",
                    "nullable": true,
                    "source": "body"
                },
                {
                    "name": "state",
                    "type": "string",
                    "nullable": false,
                    "source": "query"
                }
            ],
            "fieldsResponse": [
                {
                    "name": "data",
                    "type": "object",
                    "nullable": false,
                    "source": "response",
                    "children": [
                        {
                            "name": "token",
                            "type": "string",
                            "nullable": false,
                            "source": "response"
                        },
                        {
                            "name": "tokenRefresh",
                            "type": "string",
                            "nullable": false,
                            "source": "response"
                        },
                        {
                            "name": "gender",
                            "type": "enum",
                            "values": [
                                "Male",
                                "Female",
                                "Non_BINARY",
                                "Not_APPLICABLE"
                            ],
                            "nullable": false,
                            "source": "response"
                        }
                    ]
                }
            ]
        }
    ]
}

```

## JSON Configuration File Parameters
### General Information

* name: The name of the project or service. Example: "titok"
* description: A brief description of the project or service. Example: "tiktokurls"
* microservice: The name of the microservice. Example: "auth"
* functions: An array of function definitions that the microservice should handle.

### Function Definition Parameters
* name: The name of the function. Example: "get_tiktok_auth_url2"
* endpoint: The API endpoint for the function. Example: "/get_tiktok_auth_url2"
* method: The HTTP method for the API call (e.g., GET, POST). Example: "GET"
* needs_middleware: Boolean flag to indicate whether middleware is required for this function. Example: false
 
#### Request Fields
* fieldsRequest: An array of fields expected in the API request.

  * name: The name of the field. Example: "user_id"
  * type: The data type of the field (e.g., string, object). Example: "string"
  * nullable: Boolean flag to indicate if the field is nullable. Example: true
  * source: The source of the field in the request (e.g., query, body). Example: "query"
  * isUUID: Boolean flag to indicate if the field should be a UUID. Example: true
  * Response Fields
* fieldsResponse: An array of fields expected in the API response.
  * name: The name of the field. Example: "data"
  * type: The data type of the field (e.g., string, object). Example: "string"
  * nullable: Boolean flag to indicate if the field is nullable. Example: false
  * source: The source of the field in the response. Example: "response"
  * children: (Optional) An array of child fields if the field is an object.


### How to Use
Create a JSON Configuration File: Define the structure of your microservice and the necessary components using the JSON format described above.

Run rumor-cli: Execute the command-line tool, passing the JSON configuration file as an argument.

Generate Code: The tool will generate the specified components based on the provided configuration.
By using rumor-cli, developers can significantly reduce the time spent on repetitive coding tasks and focus more on the unique aspects of their microservices projects.

### Get started 

Clone the repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/leganux/rumor-cli
 ```


Access to  the repository
```bash
cd rumor-cli
 ```
 
Install dependencies
```bash
npm i
 ```

link up the project to CLI, this create a simlink to execute the code as bash command
```bash
npm link
 ```

### Configure (first time only)

Run config command to save the default project paths

```bash
rumorcli config 
 ```

 command request you for absolute paths for root projects of GRPC,API and Gateway. This configuration will be saved as JSON file on 

 ```txt
~/.rumor_cli/config.js
 ```
 Example config file 
  ```json

{
	"base_grpc_folder": "/Users/leganux/Documents/GitHub/grpc/grpc",
	"base_API_folder": "/Users/leganux/Documents/GitHub/api",
	"base_API_GATEWAY_folder": "/Users/leganux/Documents/GitHub/api-gateway"
}

 ```

### Commands

#### full

Generates all code based on json template for GRPC,API and GATEWAY

```bash
rumorcli full  -p /absolute/path/of/json/template.json
 ```

#### grpc

Generates all code based on json template for GRPC

```bash
rumorcli grpc -p /absolute/path/of/json/template.json
 ```
#### gateway

Generates all code based on json template for  GATEWAY

```bash
rumorcli gateway -p /absolute/path/of/json/template.json
 ```

#### API

Generates all code based on json template for API
```bash
rumorcli api -p /absolute/path/of/json/template.json
 ```



 ## Notes
- The rumor-cli covers approximately 95% of the necessary code for a microservices project. However, it is essential to manually validate that the code generation was executed successfully.

- We are currently working on improving indentation handling. For now, users will need to manually adjust the code formatting after running the CLI to ensure clean and structured code.

<hr>

<center>
Rumor-CLI is another project of Angel Erick Cruz for rumor an kingtide developers all rights reserved
This project is distributed under the MIT license.
<br>
Special thanks to all developers that work for his contribution to this development.
<br>
The project was made with ♥️ by Angel Erick Cruz Olivera 



</center>

Commit message:

Now suppor to automatically create a new microserviceand some of the configurations

README.md, after:

# rumor-cli

rumor-cli is a command-line tool designed to eliminate boilerplate and repetitive code when generating the essential files for a microservices project. It streamlines the process by automatically creating GRPC proto files, API components (controller, service, and DTO), and Go code for the API gateway, based on a single JSON configuration file provided by the user.

### Features
* GRPC Proto Files Generation: Automatically generate GRPC proto files to define service interfaces and message types.
* API Generation: Create API components, including controllers, services, and DTOs, to handle HTTP requests and responses.
* API Gateway Code Generation in Go: Generate Go code for the API gateway to manage and route incoming API requests.

### Usage
To use rumor-cli, define a JSON configuration file that specifies the details of the microservice and the desired components. Here is an example JSON configuration file with detailed explanations for each parameter and section:

### Example Json

```json 
{
    "name": "titok",
    "description": "tiktokurls",
    "microservice": "auth",
    "functions": [
        {
            "name": "get_tiktok_auth_url2",
            "enpoint": "/get_tiktok_auth_url2",
            "method": "GET",
            "needs_middleware": false,
            "fieldsRequest": [
                {
                    "name": "user_id",
                    "type": "string", // int32, float,double,string
                    "nullable": true,
                    "source": "query",
                    "isUUID": true
                }
            ],
            "fieldsResponse": [
                {
                    "name": "data",
                    "type": "string",
                    "nullable": false,
                    "source": "response"
                }
            ]
        },
        {
            "name": "tiktok_auth_callback2",
            "enpoint": "/tiktok_auth_callback2",
            "method": "GET",
            "needs_middleware": true,
            "fieldsRequest": [
                {
                    "name": "code",
                    "type": "string",
                    "nullable": true,
                    "source": "body"
                },
                {
                    "name": "state",
                    "type": "string",
                    "nullable": false,
                    "source": "query"
                }
            ],
            "fieldsResponse": [
                {
                    "name": "data",
                    "type": "object",
                    "nullable": false,
                    "source": "response",
                    "children": [
                        {
                            "name": "token",
                            "type": "string",
                            "nullable": false,
                            "source": "response"
                        },
                        {
                            "name": "tokenRefresh",
                            "type": "string",
                            "nullable": false,
                            "source": "response"
                        },
                        {
                            "name": "gender",
                            "type": "enum",
                            "values": [
                                "Male",
                                "Female",
                                "Non_BINARY",
                                "Not_APPLICABLE"
                            ],
                            "nullable": false,
                            "source": "response"
                        }
                    ]
                }
            ]
        }
    ]
}

```

## JSON Configuration File Parameters
### General Information

* name: The name of the project or service. Example: "titok"
* description: A brief description of the project or service. Example: "tiktokurls"
* microservice: The name of the microservice. Example: "auth"
* functions: An array of function definitions that the microservice should handle.

### Function Definition Parameters
* name: The name of the function. Example: "get_tiktok_auth_url2"
* endpoint: The API endpoint for the function. Example: "/get_tiktok_auth_url2"
* method: The HTTP method for the API call (e.g., GET, POST). Example: "GET"
* needs_middleware: Boolean flag to indicate whether middleware is required for this function. Example: false
 
#### Request Fields
* fieldsRequest: An array of fields expected in the API request.

  * name: The name of the field. Example: "user_id"
  * type: The data type of the field (e.g., string, object). Example: "string"
  * nullable: Boolean flag to indicate if the field is nullable. Example: true
  * source: The source of the field in the request (e.g., query, body). Example: "query"
  * isUUID: Boolean flag to indicate if the field should be a UUID. Example: true
  * Response Fields
* fieldsResponse: An array of fields expected in the API response.
  * name: The name of the field. Example: "data"
  * type: The data type of the field (e.g., string, object). Example: "string"
  * nullable: Boolean flag to indicate if the field is nullable. Example: false
  * source: The source of the field in the response. Example: "response"
  * children: (Optional) An array of child fields if the field is an object.


### How to Use
Create a JSON Configuration File: Define the structure of your microservice and the necessary components using the JSON format described above.

Run rumor-cli: Execute the command-line tool, passing the JSON configuration file as an argument.

Generate Code: The tool will generate the specified components based on the provided configuration.
By using rumor-cli, developers can significantly reduce the time spent on repetitive coding tasks and focus more on the unique aspects of their microservices projects.

### Get started 

Clone the repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/leganux/rumor-cli
 ```


Access to  the repository
```bash
cd rumor-cli
 ```
 
Install dependencies
```bash
npm i
 ```

link up the project to CLI, this create a simlink to execute the code as bash command
```bash
npm link
 ```

### Configure (first time only)

Run config command to save the default project paths

```bash
rumorcli config 
 ```

 command request you for absolute paths for root projects of GRPC,API and Gateway. This configuration will be saved as JSON file on 

 ```txt
~/.rumor_cli/config.js
 ```
 Example config file 
  ```json

{
	"base_grpc_folder": "/Users/leganux/Documents/GitHub/grpc/grpc",
	"base_API_folder": "/Users/leganux/Documents/GitHub/api",
	"base_API_GATEWAY_folder": "/Users/leganux/Documents/GitHub/api-gateway"
}

 ```

### Commands

#### full

Generates all code based on json template for GRPC,API and GATEWAY

```bash
rumorcli full  -p /absolute/path/of/json/template.json
 ```

#### grpc

Generates all code based on json template for GRPC

```bash
rumorcli grpc -p /absolute/path/of/json/template.json
 ```
#### gateway

Generates all code based on json template for  GATEWAY

```bash
rumorcli gateway -p /absolute/path/of/json/template.json
 ```

#### API

Generates all code based on json template for API
```bash
rumorcli api -p /absolute/path/of/json/template.json
 ```



## How to create a new  microservices

Generates automatically the code for create a new microservice
```bash
rumorcli microservice -n < ms_name > -p < [api,gateway,grpc,full] >
 ```
By default this command creates a microservice in full mode for all projects



 ## Notes
- The rumor-cli covers approximately 95% of the necessary code for a microservices project. However, it is essential to manually validate that the code generation was executed successfully.

- We are currently working on improving indentation handling. For now, users will need to manually adjust the code formatting after running the CLI to ensure clean and structured code.

<hr>

<center>
Rumor-CLI is another project of Angel Erick Cruz for rumor an kingtide developers all rights reserved
This project is distributed under the MIT license.
<br>
Special thanks to all developers that work for his contribution to this development.
<br>
The project was made with ♥️ by Angel Erick Cruz Olivera 



</center>
